# VSD-Physical-Verification
This repo details the learning in 5-day Physical Verification workshop by VSD from Aug-11 2021 to Aug-15 2021. 

## About the Workshop: 
The workshop details the process of Physical verification like DRC and LVS checks during a RTL to GDSII flow using Skywater 130nm Technology. This is very useful for chip fabricatioln, and this lets the participants get ready for the tape out.
The workshop helps in identifying the violatiolns during the physical verification step and rectify the same. The workshop focuses in using open lane intended for physical verification like Magic, Netgen, ngspice, Xschem., etc.,

**Organized by: Kunal Gosh, Co-founder, VSD Corp. Pvt. Ltd.
Instructor: Tim Edwards, works for Efabless and a open tools developer**

## Overview:
- **Day 1 - Introduction to Skywater PDK**
  - Basics to know
  - Installation
  - Tools
  - Sky130nm Libraries
  - Sky130nm Layers
  - Devices and I/O cells
- **Day 2 - Introduction to DRC and LVS**
  - GDS read
  - Understanding Ports
  - Abstaract view
  - Extraction
  - DRC Style
  - LVS
  - XOR comparison
- **Day 3 - Design Rule Checking (DRC)**
  - Basic rules
  - Via rules
  - Minimum area and hole rules
  - Derived layers
  - Parameterized devices
  - Miscellaneous errors
  - Antenna Checks
  - Challenges
- **Day 4 - OpenLane Flow**
  - OpenLane/OpenRoad Automation
  - OpenLane flow - non-interactive
  - OpenLane flow - interactive
  - Common DRC Errors
  - violations - Fixing manually
  
- **Day 5 - LVS**

## Introduction to Skywater PDK

Mosis Foundation, California made the scalable CMOS rules available in 1980s. Skywater 130nm SCMOS is a fully open source, making all the design rules, device definitions, etc., public.

The caravel Chip has a pad frame, RISC-V processor and large space for the user to append the design. The design is verified and fabricated by Efabless foundry partnering with Google for free of cost.

PDK refers to Process Design Kit
SKY130nm refers to Skywater technology with a feature size of 130nm which is the minimum length of the transitor.
Public Repository
Documentation https://skywater-pdk--136.org.readthedocs.build
PDK Library and files https://github.com/google/skywater-pdk
Community - slack https://join.skywater.tools
Intro - Open source EDA tools
image

Installing Sky130 open-PDK
Clone the repository https://github.com/RTimothyEdwards/open_pdks
Run cd open_pdks
Run configure --enable-sky130-pdk
Run make
Run sudo make install
Tools:
Magic

Handles GDS DEF and LEF, Does extraction and layouts are created and managed.
Mainly used to check DRCs and the violations can be fixed by following the design rules.
Klayout - Alternative tool for DRC checks

Openlane - A flow that supports the OpenRoad tools. This can be used interactively or ./flow.tcl can be used to run the scripts for RTL to GDSII

Xschem - Third repository for Schematic Editor

Netgen - LVS tool

Ngspice - Spice simulator

Sky130 Libraries
image

Sky130nm Layers
Min length of FET is 150nm
5 Layers of metals
Local interconnect connects to neighboring nodes or to metal 1 and not for routing
Poly contacts have nitride poly cut layer (NPC) around them
Front-end - Metal layers and vias for Diffusion and Ion implantation
Back-end - Deposition, MiM cap layers
MiM - Metal insulator Metal (Metal plates between two metal layers)
Redistribution Layer: Copper is deposited on the fabricated chip and solder bumps are added on top the Redistribution layer. No wire bonding is required.
Devices
Some of the devices are bipolar PNP, bipolar NPN, diffusion resistors, polysilicon resistors, pwell resistors, and etc.,
The devices have discrete widths ranging from 5.73um to 0.35um.
Layouts are used for tapeouts.
There are also hidden layers that the user may not know.
Libraries
Digital standard cell
contains Standard cell's Layout in GDS form, Liberty timing files, verilog files and netlists This is how the libraries are named: sky130_vendor_library-type[name] fd stands for foundry sc stands for standard cells hd stands for high density Example: sky130_fd_sc_hd__nor2_2 the type name is separated by "double underscore"

I/O cells
These cells are used as pad frames. It's readily available in Caravel.
sky130_fd_io
fd stands for foundry
I/O stands for input/output
Primitive devices and models
Its provided by the foundry that includes transistors, varactors, ESD devices, array of various parallel plate capacitors.
Some of the other libraries are SRAM and NVRAM that are under construction.
Device flow -manual
Shematic
Represents all the devices and it's hierarchy
Xschem has symbol libraries to create schematics. It supports both ngspice for analog simulation and gaw for waveform viewing
Schematic can be created using Xschem and the same is simulated using ngspice and exported as netlist
Layout
Magic is a layout editor that can be used to paint the layout or the same can be --extracted from netlist generated by Xschem
The layout is drawn based on the parameters used.
LVS
netgen is used for comparing a layout with a schematic
